---
layout: post
title:  Digital Leadership with Eric Sheninger - Transformative Principal Episode 012
comments: true
date:   2014-02-23 09:50:20
categories: technology leadership podcast
---

##Sponsor
[Sanebox](http://mbsy.co/3jbnc) Avoid email insanity. Start saving time by using Sanebox which acts as a personal secretary, keeping all the unimportant emails from interrupting my day. I get an email digest of all the emails that I missed during the day at a time when I choose. I love Sanebox and I think you will, too! 

<iframe style="border: none" src="//html5-player.libsyn.com/embed/episode/id/2696353/height/360/width/640/theme/standard/direction/no/autoplay/no/autonext/no/thumbnail/yes/preload/no/no_addthis/no/" height="360" width="640" scrolling="no"  allowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen oallowfullscreen msallowfullscreen></iframe>

I’m really excited about this interview with Eric Sheninger [@NMHS_Principal](http://twitter.com/NMHS_Principal). 

Eric goes over the 7 pillars of Digital Leadership in [his new book](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1452276617/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=1452276617&linkCode=as2&tag=jethrojonesco-20): 

* Communication
* Public Relations
* Branding 
* Student Engagement/Learning
* Professional Growth/Development
* Reenvisioning Learning Spaces and Environments
* Opportunity

Eric talks about how his school's journey and how that can be a template for changing from a mandate-driven school to one of empowerment. 

Our conversation includes the following:

* How social media has changed and pushed his view of the world.
* What we don't know we fear. 
* Why it is important to give students a voice. 
* How to get students to be the focus on the essential skill sets.
* How to make learning for students applicable to their (and our) real lives.
* How to change midstream from one way to do things to how he does them now. 
* We need to be the lead learners. 
* How to get all teachers on board with a vision (hint: it is all about mindset).
* How he gives his teachers autonomy in what they are doing in their classrooms. 
* How making learning fun contributes to higher scores, graduation rates, and college graduation rates.
* What you can do to be a transformative principal today. Get on Social Media and don't reinvent the wheel. 
* What motivates and inspires him. His students. He has pictures on his walls in his office that help him focus on what is most important. 

Eric talks about how he pulled 5 teachers aside in 2009 to instill his vision in their minds. He joined Twitter in March 2009, and so he really did have a change of heart. He shows that when he learns something new, he knows that it is important to implement it and change his life. 

Have a Good Life.

##Book Summary:

It’s time for the next generation of leadership.
Digital leadership is a strategic mindset and set of behaviors that leverages resources to create a meaningful, transparent, and engaging school culture. It takes into account recent changes such as ubiquitous connectivity, open-source technology, mobile devices, and personalization to dramatically shift how schools have been run and structured for over a century.  Leading in education becomes exponentially powerful when using technology to your advantage.  Eric Sheninger—“Principal Twitter”—shares his Pillars of Digital Leadership to help readers:

* Transform school culture by initiating sustainable change
* Use free social media tools to improve communication, enhance public relations, and create a positive brand presence 
* Integrate digital tools into the classroom to increase student engagement and achievement
* Facilitate professional learning and access new opportunities and resources
The time is now, whether you are a building level or teacher leader, to boldly move schools forward in the digital age.