---
layout: post
title:  Transformative Principal 009 Doug Hallenbeck Part 2
date:   2014-02-02 16:05:28
categories: podcast education middle
---

-<iframe style="border: none" src="//html5-player.libsyn.com/embed/episode/id/2627388/height/360/width/640/theme/standard/direction/no/autoplay/no/autonext/no/thumbnail/yes/preload/no/no_addthis/no/" height="360" width="640" scrolling="no"  allowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen oallowfullscreen msallowfullscreen></iframe>

In this second part of the interview, I am priveleged to talk with Doug Hallenbeck. Doug was recently named the [Assistant Principal of the year from the Utah Association of Secondary School Principals](http://www.canyonsdistrict.org/index.php?Itemid=1&id=2699%3Aunion-assistant-principal-named-utahs-best&option=com_k2&view=item). Doug has worked under four really great principals and he shares some great insight about how to be an amazing assistant principal.

I wanted to interview Doug because he has a great story. He is a thoughtful, caring, and transformative leader. He has been a guiding force in our district since its inception. We are very fortunate to work with him. 

In this second part of the interview, Doug discusses:

* How to attract and retain great talent.
* A nice little side discussion about general trends in teaching hiring. 
* His advice for an assistant principal to be a transformative assistant principal like him. 
* What special thing he has in his office. 
* His experience discussing education with Chinese educational leaders.
* How he makes parents feel good when their kids get in trouble. 
* What he suggests APs should do to be transformative Assistant Principals.

Here is more information about the [Tier 2 retirement in Utah](https://www.urs.org/Pages/NewMembers/NewMembersHome.aspx)

You'll really enjoy this interview with Doug. He is amazing. 

Let's make sure to give him a few hundred more followers on Twitter. He is [@Hallen100](https://twitter.com/dhallen100). 